#Project Overview

The premise of this project was to create a Horse Race simulator which would run smoothly. It is separated into 2 folders Part1 and Part2 where Part1 contains the texual version to run it on the command terminal and Part2 contains the more advanced version which uses interface and GUI.

#Changes made in the Horse and Race class before the GUI

Part1 horse class consisted of the several features of the horse being its name, symbol and confidence rate whereas the Race class utilised those features in determining how to start the race (use the startRace method in the class). In Part2 more components of the horse were added in the Horse class so that more statistsics can be used to detrmine how good a horse is. This included details such as speed, number of wins and losses which were given their own getter and setter methods in the class. Another boolean isntance variable was added to the later part of deveelopment in the Horse class as in each race we wnat to chekc if that horse has won or lost so the variable was given its own getter and setter method which would chnage to true if that horse has won and false if it has lost. The Race class was changed accordingly to accomodate for the new features of a horse. Speed of the horse was calculated in the startRace by useing the time between the beginning of the race to the ned of the  race regardless if the horse has fallen or not and then with the distance each horse has travelled we calculate average speed of a horse in the entire race. These changes had to have been made before the application of the GUI so any styles added can be added as extras.

#Changes made in the Horse and Race class for GUI

No changes were made  in the Horse class for GUI application as this class was only so that we can access the Horse objects through the getter and setter methods. The main and major changes was converting the Race class so that the race is no loger printed on tht terminal and instead as a tab that can be accessed. This required useing a JTextArea so the text can be changed which represented the horse moving in a race. Majority of the class remained the same except for the prinst which we use append so that the changes are set to the JTextArea instead of the terminal. After this was done further classes were added so that the GUI of the horse race was more unique and customsiable. further classes were made to account for customisation of the JTextArea such as designs for the choices of the track. A betting system was impplemented so that the user can bet on a horse quite easily. This spanned across the several newer classes and a similar technique was employed in adding a horse to the race or entering a horse. The data for all the users and horses was saved on text files called users.txt and horseslist.txt

#How to run Textual version

I used the BlueJ IDE to run both the textual and graphical version of my code. This was primarily because the IDEs of Inteliji and VSCode do not support the unique unicode characters that were used and some of the regex used in clearing the command prompt. I would highly reccomend running the program on BlueJ as it is more smoother in general. To start the texual version of the race which has all its classes stored in the Part1 folder use the StartRace method in the Race class. This method is access by creating a race Object to which you enter the correct parameters (being the race length). Next just access the Race method and the race will begin to start. Bear in mind you also have to have to use the addHorse method before startng the race to add the 3 horses. You need to create 3 objects of the Horse class with the correct paarmeters. A example of this is in the TestRace class which simulates how you should run the program.

#How to run the Graphical version

To run the graphical version I added a TestraceJava class to help you. The main starting point of the line of classes is at GUIRacesStart where you need to create a object of this class. Creating the object of this class sets a message in the terminal saying the object has been created for testing reasons. You then need to recall the startRaceGUI method in this class which then creates a object from the LoginSystem class which starts the entire race. The race starts off with you entering details and if you are new you are asked to create details. All the users are saved on the users.txt where there are already 2 users set called Muneeb Musharaf and Moeez Musharaf. These users have already been added to the file which you can test on. If you run the FileMaker class again it will reset the files to its original 2 users. Overall running the programme is relatively easy with initiating the GUIRaceStart object and the startRaceGUI method. 
